Hello and welcome to Chapter 13.
What we did in the last chapter, of
course, is we learned how to make request
response calls across the Internet, but
instead of from a browser, from Python.
And now we are going to become
much more powerful with that.
We are going to really push this.
And we are going to talk instead of
reading HTML, which is not really intended
for consumption by an application like
yours that is interested in data.
Sometimes HTML is all we've got.
Now we're going to talk to web services.
And these are URLs that are designed
explicitly to hand you data back for
your application.
So the data, it was a natural thing once
we had browsers that were talking HTML,
to come up with a way to
structure the data to say look,
we're going to make the data look clean.
We're expecting this data to be
consumed by your application.
And so we're going to come up with some
formats to represent that data going back
and forth between
applications across networks.
And there are two technologies
that we'll talk about.
One will be called the extensible
mark-up language, which is XML.
And the other one's called JSON,
which is the JavaScript Object Notation.
So the problem is, when we're
sending data between applications,
we have things like lists
and dictionaries in Python,
and if you were to go into the Java
programming language you wouldn't
find lists and dictionaries,
you would find what we call a HashMap.
And so you can't really send
a Python dictionary across,
you have to send something that
both Python and Java agree on.
And then they convert.
And so we call this the Wire Protocol.
We call it the Wire Protocol because
if you were to sort of split this, and
you were to look at
the stuff going back and
forth, and you would say what is
going on the wire?
We think of the internet
as a series of wires.
So if you were to grab one wire and
you were to look at it, tap into it, and
you say, what is this Python program
sending to that Java program on the wire?
So, we call it Wire Protocol.
Even though, hey,
it may be fiber optic these days.
So we don't even know if they're wires,
but we call it the Wire Protocol.
And so, we have to agree on a wire format.
A format that is neither the Python
format, nor the Java format.
It's just a format that we use.
And once we've agreed on the format,
data inside of a Python application
has to be transformed in
some way to the wire format.
The wire format's sent across, and
then for Java to understand and
make use of that, they've got
to pull that wire format off and
then turn it into an internal structure.
So, dictionaries and HashMaps are internal
structures for Python and Java.
This introduces a term that's very
important, serialize and de-serialize.
Serialize is the act of taking internal
structure and creating the wire format.
And de-serializing is the act
of taking that wire format and
creating an internal structure and
in different languages.
It allows us to create sets
of applications that work
in different languages, right?
This particular thing that I'm
showing you, in the middle, is XML.
So XML is one of the two formats we're
going to spend time talking about in this
section, and the different formats
are better and worse for different things.
XML kind of came first.
XML came shortly after HTML.
And so it has kind of the less thans and
greater thans that HTML has, but
it's very structured data.
The other thing that we'll talk
about is a wire format called JSON,
or JavaScript Object Notation, and
this is a little different.
Instead of using less thans or greater
thans it uses curly braces, double quotes,
colons, and
this actually starts looking like
the format of a Python key-value
dictionary, right?
And so even though it kind of looks
like it, this is still a wire format.
And this is textual representation
of a Python dictionary.
And it can be read and
turned into a Java HashMap.
And so JSON and XML are the two formats,
the two common wire formats,
that are used for
applications to exchange data.
So coming up next,
we're going to talk about XML itself.